Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture on parents and children.
As you can see the scene in front of us is what we're going to be working towards.
And if we have a look there are all of these lines going from the pieces to the board itself.
And if we select only the board and then move it around you will see that all of the pieces move along
with it.
That means that all of these pieces are children of the board itself.
So let's go start setting this up now and find out more.
OK so we'll start with the default scene here and then we'll start creating our chess scene itself.
So we have in front of us a camera a cube and a light.
And these are all objects.
They can be parented to one another and how we do that is let's say we select the camera noticed that's
it's bright orange.
If we then shift and select the cube it goes dark orange meaning its selected but not the active item.
Now the cube is the active item because it's that light orange.
Now we can go to the object menu go down to parents and you see we've got a load of options here.
But basically we want the top one just the parent it to the objects.
So if we select object and then make sure you click objects again we can see that the operator panel
says make parents we can open that up and we can keep the transform if necessary.
And we'll see in a moment with the Bishop why that might be necessary but for the moment these two are
now parented together and you can see this dotted line going from our camera to our cube.
You can turn these off under the overlays options if you want to and turn off relationship lines as
we get more and more pieces in our scene.
We're going to have 32 pieces in total.
It can get a bit crowded with all of these relationship lines turned on so you may want to turn it off
for simplicity.
I'm going to leave them on for the moment so I can see these two objects apparently.
Now what this means is that the camera is now a child of the cube which means if we move the cube around
the camera will follow it.
However if we move the camera around the child it will not affect its parent and actually very very
useful whenever we are creating a hierarchy which we are certainly doing with the chess set itself.
Now at the moment you cannot really see there's no affordance other than this dotted line that
these two are connected.
If we have a look over in the outline however we can change the view type itself from view layer to
scenes.
If we change it to scenes we get a hierarchy of everything that's in the scene and we open up that we
see that we've got objects in our scene.
If we open up that we see that we've got a cube in our scene and a light.
But where's the camera.
The camera is now nested under our cube and we can see here there it is the other way that you can parent
things is by clicking and dragging them on top of other items in here.
So for instance the light itself I can parent that to the cube as well by clicking and dragging it over
the top of the cube and letting go and it's now also parented which means that the lights and the camera
now follow that piece wherever it moves however they can still move independent of one another.
Now you can just have a stronger hierarchy if you wanted.
So if the camera and lighting were set up in such a way you could link it together.
So no matter where you place it you're seeing the camera and lighting were consistent.
And this is great if you're showing off your model.
So what we could do here is parent the lights to the camera.
And again I'm going to do this by clicking and dragging and there we go we can now see the relationship
line has moved.
Occasionally you're going to have to just go No I don't want this parented into anything else anymore
and we can also see that's under the object menu under parent.
We've got the option here to clear parent.
Now what I've not done yet is used any of the shortcut keys so we could use alt and P to clear the parents.
It will bring up this menu and we can clear the parents.
We can also then reapply the parent by making sure the objects are selected and then go and control
and P and selecting objects or objects and keep transform you've always got the option to do that
at the same time.
Finally you can select multiple items and then select your final item and parent multiple children to
the same object as you can see there if you change an object's parent it just overrides what was there
previously.
So let's start this up for real now let's go into a new blender file.
I'm going to call this chess scene.
This is going to be where we're going to import all of our pieces.
So the chess scene save blender file I'm going to delete my cube from this scene I'm then going to go
ahead and append the objects I need into the scene so we can go to file append and find the appropriate
models or you can go to your file system itself.
This is pretty awesome find your files and duh der duh where are we repos blender remaster chess sets and
what we can do here is if you've got your blend pieces we can just click and drag them into our scene.
So you'd be in your three, 3D view here.
You would select your models and let's drag the board in and when we go ahead and drag the board in
it gives us a series of options.
Either link or append or open it's in this case I want to append it.
Now we get our list of things that we want to append and I'm just going to append in my object.
So in this case just the chessboard I don't need the lights or camera.
Obviously it's very small.
I'm going to press the number pad full stop or period key to zoom into it and then we can quickly put
it on shaded mode or Look Dev mode to see the object there.
Brilliant.
Now I'm going to do exactly the same thing but this time with the bishop and when we drag the bishop
in and append that and go to object and just append in the bishop itself you'll notice that the notch
comes along with it because it's integral to our model.
Now we're not going to apply that modifier just yet but we will now move this into the appropriate location.
So let's have a look at its position in the world so making sure just this one objects is selected we
can see here its at 0 0 0 and it's placed it on the right place.
All we have to do is move it on this horizontal axis rather than the vertical.
And I've been playing with these I think this is nine not nine metres nine centimetres okay.
So this is the first thing this is a new file let's just make sure that we can have the settings that
we want so I'm going to go to my scene settings go to my units and making sure it's in metric for me
if you're working in different that's fine I'm going to go to centimeters and save my file and then
when we're moving things around they're going to be moving correctly and this I think is twenty one.
There we go.
So our bishops now in the right place but Oh no the Notch has not followed Okay so we've forgotten
to parent the notch to the bishop.
That's because we didn't know about parenting.
So let's just undo that move from place it back to where it was.
Let's parent the notch to our bishop control and P done.
Now let's go ahead and parent the bishop to the board.
Control and P done.
We should now find that when we move the board the bishop moves along with it.
When we move the bishop the notch moves along with it.
Perfect.
Now we can go ahead and move our bishop to the appropriate location.
So if we move this to nine and 21 again of course it may be different on your board if you're using
different scales.
I know that works for mine.
And then we've got everything all sorted.
Now I'm going to switch my view in the outline ahead to scenes so I can just make sure that we've got
chess set.
Yes Bishop Yes.
And then we've got this not just here.
Now one thing I do want to show you I've managed to go into edit mode is sometimes when you parent things
together let's say we wanted to parent this together again you can end up with the another object just
disappearing into the distance like so and resetting to the center of the scene where it was originally
imported to.
Very easy to do if that does happen just remember to click keep transform and that will not happen.
So that's the example of where that is incredibly useful.
Now you may argue at this points that we've solidified how the bishop is going to look.
So we could actually apply this boolean modifier and then go ahead and delete the notch object itself.
I'm not going to do that at the moment but that is a valid option.
The other thing to bear in mind is because we have parented this already if we go ahead and whilst
both objects are selected alt and D to link duplicate.
So they're both the same type of mesh.
So we alter one mesh we alter the other.
Notice that it is already parented.
It has inherited its parent.
The same is true is if we have duplicated it it's inherited the parent as well.
Now we do want linked duplicates what this means is that if this object here changes the other one does
as well and that is really important at this stage because if we make an edit to one of our objects
we want to make sure that both of them gets updated and I think that leads us nicely onto our challenge
okay.
So your challenge is to append the pawn into the chess scene.
So we're almost there now sets up the correct parenting hierarchy and linked duplicate the rest of the
pawns and the other bishop if you haven't done yet and place them in the appropriate position and then
test to make sure that when you move the board piece itself the others follow along as well.
Pause video now and give that a go. Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead hop on over into blender and complete the board with the pieces we've got already okay.
Everybody welcome back.
So the first thing I'm going to do here is we've already got the bishop in our scene.
We can lower its position to zero.
Now notice at the moment the active selected object is the notch.
I don't want that.
I want the active selected to be the bishop.
Otherwise I'll be moving the wrong piece.
There we go.
And this is probably going to be minus twelve or minus nine.
Yes.
There we go.
And 21 wasn't it.
OK.
So that's that's in.
I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to grab my pawn.
Drag that into our scene append it and then go to all wrong one.
Go to object pawn append.
There we go it's in the scene.
I'm going to shift select the board itself and go to control and P to parent it to the board.
OK.
So that's the first one done.
The next thing I need to do here is go ahead and move it to the correct location.
So on the y axis oop making sure you've got the right thing selected we are looking about 15 centimeters
perfect and we're going to start over here and that's going to be 21.
Okay.
It's now a matter of linked duplicates or we could use an array modifier.
Mm hmm.
Interesting.
I'm going to do linked duplicates because otherwise it's going to be a pain to switch the object data
out afterwards.
So in this case the array modifier is not going to be suitable.
I'm going to use Alt and D to make the leap linked duplicates and then we'll move it on the x axis probably
by minus 3.
I should imagine minus 6.
Perfect.
There we go.
I'm going to select them both and when they're both selected I'm going to go alt and to duplicate
of them again.
Escape out of then go G X minus 12.
Yep.
There we go.
Select all four alt and D.
G X minus 24.
There we go.
So that's all of those duplicated.
You could have done them one at a time.
Now I am going to double check that these all have the same mesh data even if they're separate mesh
objects and you can test that by just selecting one of them going to edit mode by pressing tab and they
all switch to edit mode and you can see here.
That means that the entire sets of pawns all adjust.
And there we go.
We've got everything all set up in our scene and everything is all linked together we can test that
by moving this perfect the pieces should move individually which they do do.
And then the bishop itself moves individually and the Notch is still parented.
Excellent.
So we've got a hierarchy all set up there.
How did you guys get on.
This is brilliant.
This scene is now coming together really well.
We've got a couple more pieces to make and the board to make a bit more ornate as well.
Show your progress over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.